Name: Bianca-Ioana Constandache
Year 2024/2025 Subject: MPhil Quantitative Climate and Environmental Science
My year at the University of Cambridge opened a new chapter in my life, a chapter called ‘I
am representing my country, my community, my background’. This opportunity, enabled by
the Paula Browne Scholarship, has truly been a dream come true. From the first days of
studying in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, I felt that the
hard work I put in during my difficult childhood had paid off.
My passion for theoretical physics, fluid dynamics in particular, and sustainability was
properly nurtured through the in-depth lectures, advanced experiments in the GK Laboratory,
and environmental fieldwork included in my course, my dream course. I thoroughly enjoyed
preparing for exams and developing new skills across the Engineering, Physics, and Earth
Sciences departments. There, I undertook courses in Economics of Electricity and
Environment, Materials, Electronics & Renewable Energy, and conducted environmental
research at the David Attenborough Building.
I am grateful to have made my mentors in energy, sustainability, and academia proud as a
Paula Browne Scholar by developing my skillset at the University of Cambridge.
Consequently, I participated in an Early Careers in Energy conference, where I delivered a
presentation at the intersection of all of my interests in sustainability, economics, and
business. The presentation, titled ‘The Triple Helix of Innovation’, was awarded a prize for
originality. Furthermore, studying at the University opened up new doors by connecting me
with experts, industry leaders, and entrepreneurs-in-residence.
I dream of launching my own technology startup in the field of sustainability, and I believe
this education will serve as a cornerstone towards my business and innovation objectives.
During the year, I was an active participant in the Cambridge University Entrepreneurship
Society and Cambridge Climate Society, where I met like-minded individuals with a passion
for finding solutions to today’s pressing environmental challenges. Ultimately, I was offered a
place in a startup competition through one of the VC firms within the Oxbridge network and
met students who have pursued the same path.
I look forward to collaborating with Cambridge alumni and mentors who demonstrate a
strong collaborative spirit, a proactive attitude, and the talent and courage necessary to craft
solutions for the planet’s urgent environmental needs.
For all of this, I am very grateful to Lord Browne and the opportunity to be a Paula Browne
Scholar.
